# Dictionaries

## Things to know:
- Dictionaries store multiple values of the same type, each associated with a key which acts as an identifier for that value within the dictionary.
- Dictionaries are type-safe and always clear about what they contain.
- The types of values that can be stored in a dictionary must always be made clear either through explicit type annotation or through type inference.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Creating a dictionary

This is a Dictionary literal. They contain a comma-separated list of key:value pairs:
```swift
["TYO": "Tokyo", "DUB": "Dublin"]
```

Let's use that literal to define and initialize a Dictionary.

In this case, we use type annotation to explicitly declare a Dictionary containing String keys and String values. This uses the syntactic sugar "[ KeyType: ValueType ]" to declare the dictionary.
```swift
var airports: [String : String] = ["TYO": "Tokyo", "DUB": "Dublin", "APL": "Apple Intl"]
```

The declaration for airports above could also have been declared in this way:
```swift
var players: Dictionary<String, String> = ["Who" : "First", "What" : "Second"]
```

In the case below, the literal contains only Strings for all keys and only Strings for all values, so type inference works in our favor allowing us to avoid the type annotation:
```swift
let inferredDictionary = ["TYO": "Tokyo", "DUB": "Dublin"]
```

## Accessing and modifying a Dictionary

Let's get a value from the dictionary for the TYO airport:
```swift
airports["TYO"]
```

What happens if we try to get a value that doesn't exist?

Since this can happen, the Dictionary always retuns an optional, so in the next line of code, notFound will be nil. It will also be of type String?
```swift
var notFound = airports["FOO"]
```

We can get the number of elements in the dictionary:
```swift
airports.count
```

We can add an element by accessing a key that doesn't exist:
```swift
airports["LHR"] = "London"
```

Here's another way to set/update a value. This lets us get the previous value before we set the new one. The returned value is optional, in case the new value doesn't replace an existing one:
```swift
var previousValue = airports.updateValue("Dublin International", forKey: "DUB")
```

We can remove an entry by setting the value for a key to nil:
```swift
airports["APL"] = nil
```

Here's another way to remove a value. The returned value is set to the value that was removed. Again, this is optional in case there was no value to remove. In this case, the APL airport was already removed, so the return value will be a nil optional:
```swift
var removedValue = airports.removeValueForKey("APL")
```

## Iterating over a Dictionary

We can iterating over key/value pairs with a for-in loop, which uses a Tuple to hold the key/value pair for each entry in the Dictionary:
```swift
for (airportCode, airportName) in airports
{
	airportCode
	airportName
}
```

We can iterate over just the keys
```swift
for airportCode in airports.keys
{
	airportCode
}
```

We can iterate over jsut the values
```swift
for airportName in airports.values
{
	airportName
}
```

We can create an array from the keys or values

Note that when doing this, the use of Array() is needed to convert the keys or values into an array.
```swift
var airportCodes = Array(airports.keys)
var airportNames = Array(airports.values)
```

## Creating an empty Dictionary

Here, we create an empty Dictionary of Int keys and String values:
```swift
var namesOfIntegers = Dictionary<Int, String>()
```

Let's set one of the values
```swift
namesOfIntegers[16] = "Sixteen"
```

We can empty a dictionary using an empty dictionary literal:
```swift
namesOfIntegers = [:]
```

An immutable dictionary is a constant.
```swift
let immutableDict = ["a": "one", "b": "two"]
```

Similar to arrays, we cannot modify the contents of an immutable dictionary. The following lines will not compile:
```swift
// immutableDict["a"] = "b" // You cannot modify an element
// immutableDict["c"] = "three" // You cannot add a new entry or change the size
```

Dictionaries are value types, which means they are copied on assignment.

Let's create a Dictionary and copy it:
```swift
var ages = ["Peter": 23, "Wei": 35, "Anish": 65, "Katya": 19]
var copiedAges = ages
```

Next, we'll modify the copy:
```swift
copiedAges["Peter"] = 24
```

And we can see that the original is not changed:
```swift
ages["Peter"]
```

